---
title: Old Grave Yards
date: "2018-07-02"
category: ["history"]
---

There is an isolated grave yard off the Pennsylvania Turnpike up in the mountains that attracts my attention.  The sprits, if there are spirits there must marvel at the changes they see.  They worked the farm, managed the house, mothered the babies and seldom saw anyone except an occasional neighbor on the way to market or when they went to church. Now they see a constant flow of cars and trucks that sure are a lot different than their horse and buggy.  One could picture them sitting around on the gravestones discussing the new cool cars and talking of old times but of course there are no spirits sitting around on grave stones or if there are no one has seen them.

I am always fascinated with the idea that those people were just like us except that they lived decades before us.  Babies were born, kids grew up, couples married, set-up house and had babies, just like us.  Granted, most of them had far more hardships than we do, the women had babies until they died, the men worked tirelessly until they collapsed or died of disease.  They were hot in the summer and cold in the winter and frequently hungry but life was not all bad. Kids played and ate cookies, young people courted and danced at weddings, everyone celebrated birthdays, anniversaries and holidays just as we do.

There is a small grave yard in Manheim Township Overlook Park where I run.  The park was formerly the Stoner Farm, the old stone farm house is still there. I stopped one day to look at the names. The oldest person was Isaac Stoner, born 1769.  Nine of the twelve were Stoners and were born between 1769 and 1800. There were three Steiners who must have married Stoner girls.  No one around, I mumbled "Yo Isaac, how's it going," I certainly did not expect an answer nor did I get one but then again you can't be sure about those things.

So, the Stoners were a big healthy family, German immigrants here for a few generations, prosperous from the size of the farm and the large stone house.    Elizabeth probably pushed Isaac to get the new house and furniture insisting that they could afford a house and new furniture the same as the Buchanans.  Buchanan's house is a few miles away, they probably visited, maybe Elizabeth drank too much and was flirty at one of their parties.

Downtown Lancaster was a bustling city then, the farm was only five or six miles away. It was right after the revolution, Pioneers heading West through the Cumberland Gap would stop there for provisions, Conestoga Wagons and Lancaster Rifles.

Life must have been difficult compared to ours.  The Stoner's as farmers probably ate pretty well but those hot humid Lancaster summers and cold winters must have been miserable.  People in those days had to work, time around the fire place was limited Their clothes were seldom washed, no deodorants and they bathed in a small tub. I am sure that the Stoner's were used to their life and may not have complained as much as we do.  The hygiene must have been atrocious, "excuse me I have to", we would say bathroom, it was not a bathroom, it was hanging over a smelly pit full of you know what, where you wiped yourself with corncobs and did not wash your hands. There were no disposable diapers or washing machines for the dirty diapers and mother was always pregnant, no birth-control pills. There are over one-hundred Stoners in the Lancaster Phone Book.

There was still time for courting.  Guys those days took great pride in their horses as we do in our cars.  It's easy to imagine the Steiner boys, we will assume that they were not Mennonites, riding up to the Stoner's all dressed up in their tight pants, frock coats and wide brimmed hats, smelling like a goat, no showers those days, calling on the Stoner girls.  So, Johannes is hot for Barbara, wants to get romantic, where did they go?  There is an old bench in a glen not far from the farm house, not too good but maybe that is the best they can do.  All those layers and layers of clothes, and boots and spurs must have been a challenge.

I recently was out for a run on a beautiful Spring day when I saw an older man my age sitting on a bench near the grave yard dressed in plain clothes, probably a Quaker.  I thought, could this be Isaac's spirit, no, there is no such thing as spirits.  Then again, maybe there are. I thought I saw an angel when I was coming out of the anesthetic after an operation.  If there are angels, maybe there are spirits and maybe this guy is Isaac's spirit.  "Excuse me sir, are you Isaac Stoner".  "Yes, who are you to ask."  "My name is Bud, you have probably seen me running by."  Isaac said he saw a lot of people running by and there was nothing about me that would make him remember.  Not a good start, "How is your family, happy and healthy?"  Isaac replied "that actually they were a pain in the ass and so is my wife and that's why I'm sitting here.  Now they all sit around on the grave stones complaining and gossiping and those girls are still looking at those boys running by."  He went on that "actually he had a good family but before they were spirits he was always having to keep after the boys to work the farm, the girls to do the chores, his wife always wanted new clothes and his brother in law always wanted to borrow money."  I noted that we had those problems.

Isaac went on talking about those so-called Pioneers that were crowding the area and raising prices, the British were threatening Washington and could come up the Susquehanna and that Buchanan boy was dumb as a stick.  Just then a bunch of dog walkers walked by and Isaac disappeared, I suppose spirits come and go, if there are spirits. Come to think of it, I'm ninety, I may know more about spirits in a little while.

<br/>

Bud Rosch, 7/2/18
