---
title: Tri-Clasm
date: "2014-04-12"
category: ["short-story"]
---
Tri-clasm's February 2022, I am writing from the F&M campus, or what was the F&M campus before the Tri-clasm.  There are 43 of us here, we are the ones with an odd gene that allowed us to escape the Great Plague.  There are probably no others near here but we guess that there are similar small communities around the world.  We seldom travel more than four or five miles.  There may be dangers further away and we can meet most of our needs here.  We are a small group and need each other.

Our community is quite diverse, Anglos, Latinos, African-Americans and a few Amish.  We vary in age from six months to 95, that's me.  It would be difficult to imagine our home.  The campus is overgrown, tall grass where there was lawns, flaking paint, trash all around.  Not surprising, we have no utilities.  We lost electric power which is also necessary for pumping water and sewage from the Great Solar Storm. Supplies of oil and gas only lasted for a year.

We call our tragedy the tri-clasm, the Global Warming Tipping point, a Solar storm of great proportions and the Great Plague.  It all happened from 2014 to 2016.

The climate reached a tipping point late in 2014 much earlier than had been predicted.  This caused an increase in the ocean temperature resulting in polar ice melting and violent storms.  The rise in the oceans from the melting caused coastal flooding over wide areas.  We have not had communication with those areas for years but assume that New York, Miami and other cities have been lost due to the flooding and the violent storms.  The few left alive probably fled inland.

The violent storms are our greatest concern.  The accurate weather forecasts are long gone.  We must be constantly prepared for "one hundred year storms" every six to eight weeks.  The storms have fierce winds approaching 200 miles per hour with up to 12" of rain in the summer and up to 10 feet of snow in the winter. Temperatures range from 110 F. to negative 40.

The solar storm of 2015 presented our greatest danger.  The scientists provided warning to seek cover, but many people did not receive the warning or gain cover and were killed.  The electric grid and most electrical and electronic devices were destroyed.  In a short time most communication and transportation disappeared and fuel supplies were gone.

Our civilization was in a shambles.  There was almost no manufacturing, transportation, communication or pharmaceutical production.

A Great Plague developed late in 2015 when civilization was already in peril. It was not surprising that the plague developed with the infrastructure destroyed.  The Plague spread quickly and killed in twenty four hours. One day my wife complained of feeling ill and fell dead In an hour.  I was devastated, a tragic loss and no one to share my sorrow.  The back yard was her cemetery where I often go to talk to her.

The world was covered with dead bodies with almost no survivors,  There were few people still alive, no traffic or communication of any kind.  I had not heard from my children for a year.  The Tri-clasm left me alone and afraid.    My only consolation was that I probably join my wife in a few hours.

It was months before I accepted the idea that I would not die from the Plague.  It had been so long sine I had seen or heard of anyone that I wondered if anyone else had survived. There  were dead and decaying bodies all over.  The smell was terrible and lasted for months.  Early in the Plague the Sanitation Department attempted to dispose of the dead bodies at the incinerator.  There were tens of thousands of bodies in Lancaster alone.  Families would carry there dead to the curb for pick-up, a clergyman rode in the truck offering prayers. In a short time most of the workers were dead and the bodies remained where they fell.

It finally dawned on me that I must plan and provide for myself.  I continued living in our home and eating canned and packaged food from our pantry and from that scavenged from the neighbors' houses.  The fire place provided warmth, there was plenty of fire wood available from our and the neighbors wood pile. I collected water from drain pipes and built a privy. The violent storms confined me to the house, sometimes for days.  The neighbors' houses also provided guns and ammunition to protect from any wild animals and any tools I might need.  Our, and the neighbors library provided for reading during daylight, the nights were so lonely, imagine months without seeing or talking to another person.

There was too much time for thinking and introspection. I would awake every morning to a world that was unchanged with no expectation that there would be a change.  There were no newspapers, TV, or Internet, my life was my house and yard.  I was so lonely.  Life was just existence without someone to share hopes and ideas.  Was there a God, how could these disasters happen? Nothing I read ever anticipated my life.  Maybe I should find a tall building and jump.

I gradually started to venture to the nearby shopping centers to replenish my food and clothes.  The stores with diamonds and gold were of little interest but sometimes I would pick up jewels to wear just for fun.  I had a five thousand dollar watch, a two carat diamond ring, Lancaster's best clothes, and no one to see them.

One day while prowling through K-mart I noticed signs that appeared to indicate that someone else was scavenging. I started yelling with no response and started to search.  After searching for some time I heard rustling under a counter and found a small boy about eight or ten years old who was very frightened.  I tried to talk to him but it was apparent that he only spoke Spanish. It came to me that he must be living with adults and that if I followed him I could contact them.  With gestures and very limited Spanish I was able to get him to return to those adults.  We started back toward the city and after a while came to a row house that appeared to be occupied.  The boy entered and I called out for someone inside.  A woman came to the door, frightened and ready to flee.  No wonder, I had not shaved or cut my hair in months and was wearing ridiculous clothing, remember I was also 95.  She was the child's mother and spoke some English, her name was Rosa.  I was able to convince her that I meant no harm.  We were both overwhelmed with the idea of seeing and talking to another human.  We told each other of what had happened and how we were living.  I asked to return the next day and suggested that we could work and help each other, she agreed.

It was not apparent but our community had started to form.

I returned the next day and shared a meal with Rosa and her son, what a treat to eat different food with others at the table. We were both intrigued with the idea that there might still be a few others in Lancaster.  The weather the next day was good, I brought my gun, Rosa had packed lunch and we started to search.  The West side had been more densely populated and was convenient for our search.  It was a week before we saw a house that appeared occupied, we yelled and were soon greeted by a boy and girl teen-agers and an older woman, Pete, Allison and Edna.  They were not related but lived in the same neighborhood and had gathered together for safety and comfort.  We were elated when they told us that there was a doctor and a nurse living in the hospital, we would have access to medical care.  The five of us walked to the hospital and met with the Don and June, the doctor and nurse, what happiness to join with other humans.  There were now seven of us.  We discussed ideas for community living and agreed on settling in at F&M.

The next day Don and Pete ventured to downtown and the East side to search for other survivors.  It took almost a year but they eventually contacted 30 others, most of whom had been living separately and were happy to join us.  The "new" dorm at F&M was selected as our community home.  We separated in to separate areas depending on our needs and interests.  Our suite was referred to as the  Nursing Home.  Our rooms were furnished with the finest bedding, furniture china and silverware, we had every luxury including outdoor privies and showers.  We sometimes dressed for dinner in formal clothes, a post tri-clasm Downton Abbey.

I should note that forming the Community was not easy, we were constantly bothered by the frightful hurricanes in the summer and the tremendous blizzards in the winter.  We lost one of our people in a flood and another in a blizzard in spite of our caution.

During the formation of our community two of us were downtown foraging when down King Street came an Amish wagon driven by a young Amish man with another young man and two young women.  What a surprise.  None of the them were related.  They had gradually come together around Intercourse and had found a horse that had survived the plague.  We invited them to join us and after some discussion they did.

Were we the start of a new civilization, or were we the last of the earth's humans?  If we continued would we be loving, peaceful, cultured or belligerent, cruel, destructive and mean?  

Probably all of the above.

All of us had undergone traumatic times, solar storms, loss of the grid and loss of all of our family friends and neighbors from a terrible plague.  We then underwent a period of isolation when we learned to surive in spite of the continuous dangerous storms.  These were the unusual, capable and independent people that would comprise our community.

There was ample time to talk; scavenging food and supplies and cooking took little time and we were forced indoors during the storms.  Talk gravitated to the idea of formalizing our community.  Some argued that there was no future and that we would soon be dead. Talk continued when someone suddenly said, "Emily must be pregnant".  This should not have been a surprise, we had young people, no rules and ample free time.  The fact that there would no doubt be additional children convinced us that there would be future and that we should develop plans for the future.

We started early having community meetings where we would discuss problems and plans and proceed after agreement.  We had as noted ample time and could discuss and discuss until everyone agreed or at least was willing to allow a proposal to proceed.  We had no elected leader, some had more influence than others.  One wonders how long this organization, or lack of organization would continue.

We came from different religions but our faith disappeared during the Tri-clasm.  How could a God allow such tragedies?  Our care for each other became our faith, we became truly family.  We needed each other to survive in a very hostile environment.

What kind of future should we aim for but it was first necessary to provide for our near future without planning for the 2100s.  We divided in to four groups, the doctor and nurse would be our Health Provider for our medical needs with help from our Domestic Affairs group when  needed.  Emily was their first patient, we were all excited waiting for the new baby.   The Domestic Affairs group would provide meals and generally maintain our housing.  Many meals were outstanding and accompanied by fine wines.  The Acquisitions Group was responsible to obtain food, clothing, furnishings and firewood.  They started a garden on the football field but the weather destroyed their efforts.  They switched to the field house where they produced a good supply of vegetables during the milder weather.  They even tried to farm fish in the swimming pool but were not successful. The fourth group was the Pioneer Group.  They were responsible for our safety and to explore beyond our immediate area, for danger and opportunity.

It was then possible to discuss long range objectives.  Did we wish to start to recreate 21st century America?                   
